# Chapter 9 Review Answers

## 9.1
### What two registers can be used to provide a simple form of memory protection?
- The base and limit registers. The base register holds the smallest legal physical memory address, and
the limit register specifies the size of the range.

## 9.2
### List the three different times at which address binding may occur.
- Binding symbolic address references to actual physical memory addresses may occur during:
    - Compile time
    - Load time
    - Execution time

## 9.3
### True or False? An address generated by the CPU is also referred to as a physical address.
- False. This address generated by the CPU is referred to as a **logical address**

## 9.4
### What is the hardware device that maps virtual to physical addresses?
- This is called the Memory Management Unit, or MMU.

## 9.5
### What is the backing store?
- The backing store is the long-term, non-volatile storage such as a hard disk or SSD that is used by a paging or swapping system to store information
that is not in memory.

## 9.6
### True or False? Mobile systems typically use swapping.
- False! Mobile systems typically do not use swapping for a few reasons. Firstly, historically speaking, on-board flash storage has been limited in space 
in mobile devices, so reserving portions of the valuable storage for swap was not favorable. Secondly, the lifetime of flash memory is entirely dependent on the number of writes, and flash memory tolerates fewer writes before becoming unreliable when compared to HDDs. Lastly, there is poor throughput between main memory and flash memory on most mobile devices.

## 9.7
### What are the three strategies for selecting a free hole from the set of available holes?
1. First fit
    - In this strategy, the **first** free hole found which is large enough to accommodate a given process is selected to insert said process into.
2. Best fit
    - In this strategy, the **smallest** free hole found which is large enough to accommodate a given process is selected to insert said process into.
3. Worst fit
    - In this strategy, the **largest** free hole found is selcted to insert a given process into.

## 9.8
### What are the two forms of fragmentation?
- Internal fragmentation, where extra unused space is allocated to processes, usually caused by set page sizes that programs aren't perfectly divisible into, 
and external fragmentation, where there is unused space between processes.

## 9.9
### List at least two possible parts of a program that may be assigned separate segments.
- Program code
- Global variables
- The heap
- Stacks for each thread
- Standard C library (imported code)

## 9.10
### What are the two parts of an address generated by the CPU?
- The **page number** and **page offset** are the 2 constituent parts of a logical address generated by the CPU

## 9.11
### What does each entry in the page table contain?
- Each entry in the page table contains the base address of each page (frame) in physical memory

## 9.12
### True or False? Fragmentation can still occur in paging systems.
- True! Internal fragmentation is a natural byproduct of uniform-length pages of memory; any process which is not cleanly divisible by the page size will have 
internal fragmentation.

## 9.13
### What is the term that describes when a page number is not present in the TLB?
- TLB Miss

## 9.14
### If a page offset is 13 bits, how large (in bytes) is the page?
- The page offset is used to essentially "index" inside of a given page, so if the page offset is 13 bits, then 13 bits are required to find any point
in the page. Therefore, there are ```2^13 = 8192 bytes``` in the page.

## 9.15
### How many entries are in a two-level page table with a 20-bit page number?
- If we assume that the page tables are of equivalent sizes, then there are 2^10 = 1024 entries in the outer table as well as each inner table.

## 9.16
### What is an alternative to hierarchical paging for large (> 32 bits) address sizes?
- Hashed page table
    - Common in address spaces > 32 bits
    - Virtual page number is hashed into a page table
    - This page table contains a chain of elements hashing to the same location because the same hash function can have the same value 
    for different page numbers (these are called hash collisions)
    - Each element contains
        1. The virtual page number
        2. The value of the mapped page frame
        3. A pointer to the next element
    - Virtual page numbers are compared in this chain searching for a match
    - If a match is found, the corresponding physical frame is extracted

## 9.17
### True or False? IA-32 address translation involves both paging and segmentation.
- True

## 9.18
### True or False? In practice, all 64 bits are used with IA-64 addressing.
- False. IA-64/x86-64 addressing only uses a 48-bit address and supports page sizes of 4KB, 2MB, and 1GB using four levels of paging hierarchy.

## 9.19
### What are the three components of a 32-bit ARM address?
1. Outer Page
2. Inner Page
3. Offset


