# Chapter 9 (Chapter 8 in old textbook) Review Answers

## 8.1
### Name two differences between logical and physical addresses.
- A logical address does not refer to an actual existing address; rather, it refers to an abstract address in an abstract address space. Contrast this with a physical address that refers to an actual physical address in memory. A logical address is generated by the CPU and is translated into a physical address by the memory management unit(MMU). Therefore, physical addresses are generated by the MMU.

## 8.2
### Consider a system in which a program can be separated into two parts: code and data. The CPU knows whether it wants an instruction (instruction fetch) or data (data fetch or store). Therefore, two base–limit register pairs are provided: one for instructions and one for data. The instruction base–limit register pair is automatically read-only, so programs can be shared among different users. Discuss the advantages and disadvantages of this scheme.
- The major advantage of this scheme is that it is an effective mechanism for code and data sharing. For example, only one copy of an editor or a compiler needs to be kept in memory, and this code can be shared by all processes needing access to the editor or compiler code. Another advantage is protection of code against erroneous modification. The only disadvantage is that the code and data must be separated, which is usually adhered to in a compiler-generated code

## 8.3
### Why are page sizes always powers of 2?
- Paging is implemented as breaking a a virtual address into a page number and a page offset. With powers of two, this "splitting" can simply be done by taking a range of bits as the page number (upper range) and taking the other bits as the page offset (lower range). This means that simple bit masking and bit shifting can be done to get page numbers and page offset from a virtual address. Without powers of 2, we would need to perform more complicated logic in order to obtain the page number and page offset from a given virtual address.

## 8.4
### Consider a logical address space of 64 pages of 1024 words each, mapped onto a physical memory of 32 frames.
### 1. How many bits are there in the logical address?
### 2. How many bits are there in the physical address? 
1. 16 bits
2. 15 bits

## 8.5
### What is the effect of allowing two entries in a page table to point to the same page frame in memory? Explain how this effect could be used to decrease the amount of time needed to copy a large amount of memory from one place to another. What effect would updating some byte on the one page have on the other page?
- By allowing two entries in a page table to point to the same page frame in memory, users can share code and data. If the code is reentrant, memory space can be saved through the shared use of large programs such as text editors, compilers, and database systems."Copying" large amounts of memory could be effected by having different page tables point to the same memory location. However, if the page frame being pointed to contains nonreentrant code or data, then any user having access to the code can modify it and the modifications would be reflected in the other user's "copy"

## 8.6
### Describe a mechanism by which one segment could belong to the address space of two different processes.
- 